[Download
the JDK](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/download.jsp)
  
[Search the
Tutorials](../../search.html)
  
[Hide the TOC](javascript:toggleLeft())

**Trail:** Internationalization
  
**Lesson:** Formatting
  
**Section:** Dates and Times

[Formatting](index.html)

[Numbers and Currencies](numberintro.html)

[Using Predefined Formats](numberFormat.html)

[Customizing Formats](decimalFormat.html)

[Dates and Times](dateintro.html)

[Using Predefined Formats](dateFormat.html)

Customizing Formats

[Changing Date Format Symbols](dateFormatSymbols.html)

[Messages](messageintro.html)

[Dealing with Compound Messages](messageFormat.html)

[Handling Plurals](choiceFormat.html)

[Home Page](../../index.html)
>
[Internationalization](../index.html)
>
[Formatting](index.html)

[« Previous](dateFormat.html) • [Trail](../TOC.html) • [Next »](dateFormatSymbols.html)

# Customizing Formats

The previous section, [Using Predefined
Formats](dateFormat.html), described the formatting styles provided by the
`DateFormat`  class. In most cases these predefined formats
are adequate. However, if you want to create your own customized
formats, you can use the
[`SimpleDateFormat`](http://download.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/SimpleDateFormat.html) class.

The code examples that follow demonstrate the methods of the
`SimpleDateFormat`  class. You can find the full
source code for the examples in the file named
[`SimpleDateFormatDemo`](examples/SimpleDateFormatDemo.java).

### About Patterns

> When you create a `SimpleDateFormat` object, you specify a
> pattern `String`. The contents of the pattern
> `String` determine the format of the date and time. For a
> full description of the pattern's syntax, see the tables in
> [Date Format Pattern Syntax](#datepattern).
>
> The following code formats a date and time according to the pattern
> `String` passed to the `SimpleDateFormat`
> constructor. The `String` returned by the
> `format` method contains the formatted date and time that
> are to be displayed.
>
> ```
>
> Date today;
> String output;
> SimpleDateFormat formatter;
>
> formatter = new SimpleDateFormat(pattern, currentLocale);
> today = new Date();
> output = formatter.format(today);
> System.out.println(pattern + " " + output);
>
> ```
>
> The following table shows the output generated by the previous code
> example when the U.S. `Locale` is specified:
>
> ### Customized Date and Time Formats
>
> | Pattern | Output |
> | dd.MM.yy | 30.06.09 |
> | yyyy.MM.dd G 'at' hh:mm:ss z | 2009.06.30 AD at 08:29:36 PDT |
> | EEE, MMM d, ''yy | Tue, Jun 30, '09 |
> | h:mm a | 8:29 PM |
> | H:mm | 8:29 |
> | H:mm:ss:SSS | 8:28:36:249 |
> | K:mm a,z | 8:29 AM,PDT |
> | yyyy.MMMMM.dd GGG hh:mm aaa | 2009.June.30 AD 08:29 AM |

### Patterns and Locale

> The `SimpleDateFormat` class is locale-sensitive. If you
> instantiate `SimpleDateFormat` without a `Locale`
> parameter, it will format the date and time according to the default
> `Locale`. Both the pattern and the `Locale`
> determine the format. For the same pattern,
> `SimpleDateFormat` may format a date and time differently if
> the `Locale` varies.
>
> In the example code that follows, the pattern is hardcoded in the
> statement that creates the `SimpleDateFormat` object:
>
> ```
>
> Date today;
> String result;
> SimpleDateFormat formatter;
>
> formatter = new SimpleDateFormat("EEE d MMM yy",
> 				 currentLocale);
> today = new Date();
> result = formatter.format(today);
> System.out.println("Locale: " + currentLocale.toString());
> System.out.println("Result: " + result);
>
> ```
>
> When the `currentLocale` is set to different values, the
> preceding code example generates this output:
>
> ```
>
> Locale: fr_FR
> Result: mar. 30 juin 09
> Locale: de_DE
> Result: Di 30 Jun 09
> Locale: en_US
> Result: Tue 30 Jun 09
>
> ```
>
> ### Date Format Pattern Syntax
>
> You can design your own format patterns for dates and times
> from the list of symbols in the following table:
> > | Symbol | Meaning | Presentation | Example |
> > | --- | --- | --- | --- |
> > | G | era designator | Text | AD |
> > | y | year | Number | 2009 |
> > | M | month in year | Text & Number | July & 07 |
> > | d | day in month | Number | 10 |
> > | h | hour in am/pm (1-12) | Number | 12 |
> > | H | hour in day (0-23) | Number | 0 |
> > | m | minute in hour | Number | 30 |
> > | s | second in minute | Number | 55 |
> > | S | millisecond | Number | 978 |
> > | E | day in week | Text | Tuesday |
> > | D | day in year | Number | 189 |
> > | F | day of week in month | Number | 2 (2nd Wed in July) |
> > | w | week in year | Number | 27 |
> > | W | week in month | Number | 2 |
> > | a | am/pm marker | Text | PM |
> > | k | hour in day (1-24) | Number | 24 |
> > | K | hour in am/pm (0-11) | Number | 0 |
> > | z | time zone | Text | Pacific Standard Time |
> > | ' | escape for text | Delimiter | (none) |
> > | ' | single quote | Literal | ' |
>
> Characters that are not letters are treated as quoted
> text. That is, they will appear in the formatted text
> even if they are not enclosed within single quotes.
>
> The number of symbol letters you specify also determines the format.
> For example, if the "zz" pattern results in "PDT," then the
> "zzzz" pattern generates "Pacific Daylight Time."
> The following table summarizes these rules:
> > | Presentation | Number of Symbols | Result |
> > | --- | --- | --- |
> > | Text | 1 - 3 | abbreviated form, if one exists |
> > | Text | >= 4 | full form |
> > | Number | minimum number of digits is required | shorter numbers are padded with zeros (for a year, if the count of 'y' is 2, then the year is truncated to 2 digits) |
> > | Text & Number | 1 - 2 | number form |
> > | Text & Number | 3 | text form |

[« Previous](dateFormat.html)
•
[Trail](../TOC.html)
•
[Next »](dateFormatSymbols.html)

---

Problems with the examples? Try [Compiling and Running
the Examples: FAQs](../../information/run-examples.html).
  
Complaints? Compliments? Suggestions? [Give
us your feedback](http://download.oracle.com/javase/feedback.html).

Your use of this page and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner,
and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner is subject to the [Java SE Tutorial Copyright
and License](../../information/license.html).
Additionally, any example code contained in any of these Java
Tutorials pages is licensed under the
[Code
Sample License](http://developers.sun.com/license/berkeley_license.html).

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| |  |  | | --- | --- | | duke image | Oracle logo | | [About Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/index.html) | [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technology/index.html) | [Terms of Service](https://www.samplecode.oracle.com/servlets/CompulsoryClickThrough?type=TermsOfService) | Copyright © 1995, 2011 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. |

**Previous page:** Using Predefined Formats
  
**Next page:** Changing Date Format Symbols




A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly.