[Download
the JDK](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/download.jsp)
  
[Search the
Tutorials](../../search.html)
  
[Hide the TOC](javascript:toggleLeft())

**Trail:** Security Features in Java SE
  
**Lesson:** Generating and Verifying Signatures

[Generating and Verifying Signatures](index.html)

[Generating a Digital Signature](gensig.html)

[Prepare Initial Program Structure](step1.html)

[Generate Public and Private Keys](step2.html)

[Sign the Data](step3.html)

[Save the Signature and the Public Key in Files](step4.html)

[Compile and Run the Program](step5.html)

Verifying a Digital Signature

[Prepare Initial Program Structure](vstep1.html)

[Input and Convert the Encoded Public Key Bytes](vstep2.html)

[Input the Signature Bytes](vstep3.html)

[Verify the Signature](vstep4.html)

[Compile and Run the Program](vstep5.html)

[Weaknesses and Alternatives](enhancements.html)

[Home Page](../../index.html)
>
[Security Features in Java SE](../index.html)
>
[Generating and Verifying Signatures](index.html)

[« Previous](step5.html) • [Trail](../TOC.html) • [Next »](vstep1.html)

# Verifying a Digital Signature

If you have data for which a digital signature was generated,
you can verify the authenticity of the
signature. To do so, you need

* the data

  * the signature

    * the public key corresponding to the private key
      used to sign the data

In this example you write a `VerSig`
program to verify the signature generated by the
[`GenSig`](gensig.html) program.
This demonstrates
the steps required to verify the authenticity of an alleged signature.

`VerSig` imports a public key and a signature that is alleged
to be the signature of a specified data file and then verifies
the authenticity of the signature. The public key,
signature, and data file names are specified on the command line.

The steps to create the `VerSig` sample program to
import the files and to verify the signature are the following.
> 1. [Prepare Initial Program Structure](vstep1.html)
>
>    Create a text file named `VerSig.java`.
>    Type in the initial program
>    structure (import statements, class name, `main`
>    method, and so on).
>
>    - [Input and Convert the Encoded Public Key Bytes](vstep2.html)
>
>      Import the encoded public key bytes from the file specified as the first
>      command line argument
>      and convert them to a `PublicKey`.
>
>      - [Input the Signature Bytes](vstep3.html)
>
>        Input the signature bytes from the file specified as the second
>        command line argument.
>
>        - [Verify the Signature](vstep4.html)
>
>          Get a `Signature` object and initialize it
>          with the public key for verifying the signature.
>          Supply it with the data whose signature is to be
>          verified (from the file specified as the third
>          command line argument), and verify the signature.
>
>          - [Compile and Run the Program](vstep5.html)

[« Previous](step5.html)
•
[Trail](../TOC.html)
•
[Next »](vstep1.html)

---

Problems with the examples? Try [Compiling and Running
the Examples: FAQs](../../information/run-examples.html).
  
Complaints? Compliments? Suggestions? [Give
us your feedback](http://download.oracle.com/javase/feedback.html).

Your use of this page and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner,
and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner is subject to the [Java SE Tutorial Copyright
and License](../../information/license.html).
Additionally, any example code contained in any of these Java
Tutorials pages is licensed under the
[Code
Sample License](http://developers.sun.com/license/berkeley_license.html).

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| |  |  | | --- | --- | | duke image | Oracle logo | | [About Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/index.html) | [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technology/index.html) | [Terms of Service](https://www.samplecode.oracle.com/servlets/CompulsoryClickThrough?type=TermsOfService) | Copyright © 1995, 2011 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. |

**Previous page:** Compile and Run the Program
  
**Next page:** Prepare Initial Program Structure




A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly.