[Download
the JDK](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/download.jsp)
  
[Search the
Tutorials](../../search.html)
  
[Hide the TOC](javascript:toggleLeft())

**Trail:** Security Features in Java SE
  
**Lesson:** Generating and Verifying Signatures
  
**Section:** Verifying a Digital Signature

[Generating and Verifying Signatures](index.html)

[Generating a Digital Signature](gensig.html)

[Prepare Initial Program Structure](step1.html)

[Generate Public and Private Keys](step2.html)

[Sign the Data](step3.html)

[Save the Signature and the Public Key in Files](step4.html)

[Compile and Run the Program](step5.html)

[Verifying a Digital Signature](versig.html)

[Prepare Initial Program Structure](vstep1.html)

[Input and Convert the Encoded Public Key Bytes](vstep2.html)

[Input the Signature Bytes](vstep3.html)

Verify the Signature

[Compile and Run the Program](vstep5.html)

[Weaknesses and Alternatives](enhancements.html)

[Home Page](../../index.html)
>
[Security Features in Java SE](../index.html)
>
[Generating and Verifying Signatures](index.html)

[« Previous](vstep3.html) • [Trail](../TOC.html) • [Next »](vstep5.html)

# Verify the Signature

You've added code to the `VerSig` program to

* Input the encoded key bytes and converted them
  to a `PublicKey` named `pubKey`

  * Input the signature bytes into a byte array named `sigToVerify`

You can now proceed to do the verification.

**Initialize the Signature Object for Verification**
> As with signature generation, a signature is verified by
> using an instance of the `Signature` class.
> You need to create a `Signature` object that uses the same signature algorithm
> as was used to generate the signature. The algorithm used by the
> `GenSig` program was the SHA1withDSA algorithm from the SUN
> provider.
>
> ```
>
> Signature sig = Signature.getInstance("SHA1withDSA", "SUN");
>
> ```
>
> Next, you need to initialize the `Signature` object.
> The initialization method for verification requires the public key.
>
> ```
>
> sig.initVerify(pubKey);
>
> ```

**Supply the Signature Object With the Data to be Verified**
> You now need to supply the `Signature` object with the data for which
> a signature was generated. This data is in the file whose name was
> specified as the third command line argument. As you did
> when signing, read in the data one buffer at a time, and supply it to
> the `Signature` object by calling the `update` method.
>
> ```
>
> FileInputStream datafis = new FileInputStream(args[2]);
> BufferedInputStream bufin = new BufferedInputStream(datafis);
>
> byte[] buffer = new byte[1024];
> int len;
> while (bufin.available() != 0) {
>     len = bufin.read(buffer);
>     sig.update(buffer, 0, len);
> };
>
> bufin.close();
>
> ```

**Verify the Signature**
> Once you have supplied all of the data to the `Signature` object,
> you can verify the digital signature of that data and report
> the result. Recall that
> the alleged signature was read into a byte array called `sigToVerify`.
>
> ```
>
> boolean verifies = sig.verify(sigToVerify);
>
> System.out.println("signature verifies: " + verifies);
>
> ```
>
> The `verifies` value will be `true` if
> the alleged signature (`sigToVerify`) is the actual signature of the
> specified data file generated by the private key corresponding to the
> public key `pubKey`.

[« Previous](vstep3.html)
•
[Trail](../TOC.html)
•
[Next »](vstep5.html)

---

Problems with the examples? Try [Compiling and Running
the Examples: FAQs](../../information/run-examples.html).
  
Complaints? Compliments? Suggestions? [Give
us your feedback](http://download.oracle.com/javase/feedback.html).

Your use of this page and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner,
and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner is subject to the [Java SE Tutorial Copyright
and License](../../information/license.html).
Additionally, any example code contained in any of these Java
Tutorials pages is licensed under the
[Code
Sample License](http://developers.sun.com/license/berkeley_license.html).

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| |  |  | | --- | --- | | duke image | Oracle logo | | [About Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/index.html) | [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technology/index.html) | [Terms of Service](https://www.samplecode.oracle.com/servlets/CompulsoryClickThrough?type=TermsOfService) | Copyright © 1995, 2011 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. |

**Previous page:** Input the Signature Bytes
  
**Next page:** Compile and Run the Program




A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly.