[Download
the JDK](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/download.jsp)
  
[Search the
Tutorials](../../search.html)
  
[Hide the TOC](javascript:toggleLeft())

Simple API for XML

[When to Use SAX](when.html)

[Parsing an XML File Using SAX](parsing.html)

[Implementing SAX Validation](validation.html)

[Handling Lexical Events](events.html)

[Using the DTDHandler and EntityResolver](using.html)

[Further Information](info.html)

**Trail:** Java API for XML Processing (JAXP)

[Home Page](../../index.html)
>
[Java API for XML Processing (JAXP)](../index.html)

[« Previous](../intro/index.html) • [Trail](../TOC.html) • [Next »](when.html)

# Lesson: Simple API for XML

This lesson focuses on the Simple API for XML (SAX), an event-driven, serial-access
mechanism for accessing XML documents. This protocol is frequently used by servlets and
network-oriented programs that need to transmit and receive XML documents, because it is
the fastest and least memory-intensive mechanism that is currently available for dealing with
XML documents, other than the Streaming API for XML (StAX).

---

**Note -** In a nutshell, SAX is oriented towards state independent processing, where the handling
of an element does not depend on the elements that came before. StAX,
on the other hand, is oriented towards state dependent processing. For a more
detailed comparison, see
[When to Use SAX](when.html
).

---

Setting up a program to use SAX requires a bit more work
than setting up to use the Document Object Model (DOM). SAX is an
event-driven model (you provide the callback methods, and the parser invokes them as
it reads the XML data), and that makes it harder to visualize. Finally,
you cannot "back up" to an earlier part of the document, or rearrange
it, any more than you can back up a serial data stream or
rearrange characters you have read from that stream.

For those reasons, developers who are writing a user-oriented application that displays an
XML document and possibly modifies it will want to use the DOM mechanism
described in
[Document Object Model](../dom
/index.html
).

However, even if you plan to build DOM applications exclusively, there are several
important reasons for familiarizing yourself with the SAX model:

* **Same Error Handling**: The same kinds of exceptions are generated by the SAX and DOM APIs, so the error handling code is virtually identical.
* **Handling Validation Errors**: By default, the specifications require that validation errors be ignored. If you want to throw an exception in the event of a validation error (and you probably do), then you need to understand how SAX error handling works.
* **Converting Existing Data**: As you will see in
  [Document Object Model](../dom
  /index.html
  ), there is a mechanism you can use to convert an existing data set to XML. However, taking advantage of that mechanism requires an understanding of the SAX model.

[« Previous](../intro/index.html)
•
[Trail](../TOC.html)
•
[Next »](when.html)

---

Problems with the examples? Try [Compiling and Running
the Examples: FAQs](../../information/run-examples.html).
  
Complaints? Compliments? Suggestions? [Give
us your feedback](http://download.oracle.com/javase/feedback.html).

Your use of this page and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner,
and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner is subject to the [Java SE Tutorial Copyright
and License](../../information/license.html).
Additionally, any example code contained in any of these Java
Tutorials pages is licensed under the
[Code
Sample License](http://developers.sun.com/license/berkeley_license.html).

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| |  |  | | --- | --- | | duke image | Oracle logo | | [About Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/index.html) | [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technology/index.html) | [Terms of Service](https://www.samplecode.oracle.com/servlets/CompulsoryClickThrough?type=TermsOfService) | Copyright © 1995, 2011 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. |

**Previous page:** Previous Lesson
  
**Next page:** When to Use SAX




A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly.