[Download
the JDK](http://java.sun.com/javase/6/download.jsp)
  
[Search the
Tutorials](../../search.html)
  
[Hide the TOC](javascript:toggleLeft())

**Trail:** Deployment
  
**Lesson:** Deployment In-Depth
  
**Section:** Deployment Toolkit

[Deployment In-Depth](index.html)

[Deployment Toolkit](depltoolkit_index.html)

Deploying an Applet

[Customizing the Loading Screen](customizeLoadingScreen.html)

[Deploying a Java Web Start Application](createWebStartLaunchButtonFunction.html)

[Changing the Launch Button](changeLaunchButtonOfJWS.html)

[Checking the Client JRE Software Version](jreVersionCheck.html)

[Java Network Launch Protocol](jnlp.html)

[Structure of the JNLP File](jnlpFileSyntax.html)

[Deployment Best Practices](bestPractices.html)

[Reducing the Download Time](reducingDownloadTime.html)

[Avoiding Unnecessary Update Checks](avoidingUnnecessaryUpdateChecks.html)

[Signing JAR Files Only When Necessary](signing.html)

[Ensuring the Presence of the JRE Software](ensuringJRE.html)

[Questions and Exercises](QandE/questions.html)

[Home Page](../../index.html)
>
[Deployment](../index.html)
>
[Deployment In-Depth](index.html)

[« Previous](depltoolkit_index.html) • [Trail](../TOC.html) • [Next »](customizeLoadingScreen.html)

# Deploying an Applet

You can deploy applets by using the `runApplet` function of the
[Deployment Toolkit](http://www.java.com/js/deployJava.txt) script. The `runApplet` function
ensures that the required minimum version of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
software exists on the client
and then runs the applet.
The `runApplet` function generates an HTML `<applet>` tag with
the information provided.

---

**Note:** Depending on the type of browser, you might be unable to view the HTML generated by the Deployment Toolkit script when you try to view the source for the web page. To view the generated HTML, try saving the HTML page after it has been loaded, or use a tool such as Firebug (a Mozilla Firefox add-on).

---

You can deploy applets by specifying the deployment options as
attributes and parameters of the
`<applet>` tag. You can also specify deployment options in a
Java Network Launch Protocol (JNLP) file to take advantage of advanced features.
See the
[Java Network Launch Protocol](../../deployment/deploymentInDepth/jnlp.html) topic for more information about this protocol.

---

**Note:** If the client does not have the required minimum version of the JRE software, the
Deployment Toolkit script redirects the browser to
`http://www.java.com` to allow users
to download the latest JRE software. On some platforms, users might be redirected
before they can view the web page containing the applet.

---

The parameters to the `runApplet`
function vary depending on whether you are using JNLP. Applets
deployed by using JNLP can run only if the next generation Java Plug-in software
exists on the client machine (the next generation Java Plug-in
software was introduced in the Java Platform, Standard Edition 6 update 10 release).

The next section shows how to use the `runApplet` function in
the HTML page that will display the applet. The following usage scenarios are
described:

* [Specifying deployment options as attribute and
  parameter name-value pairs](#tagAttrsParams)
* [Using the `jnlp_href` parameter
  to specify deployment options in a JNLP file](#appletJnlp)
* [Specifying attribute and parameter
  name-value pairs *as well as* a JNLP file](#tagAndJnlp) (enables applet to
  run on the old and next generation Java Plug-in software)

**Function signature:** `runApplet: function(attributes, parameters, minimumVersion)`

**Parameters:**

* `attributes` – The names and values of the
  attributes of the generated `<applet>` tag
* `parameters` – The names and values of the
  `<param>` tags in the generated `<applet>`
  tag
* `minimumVersion` – The minimum version of the JRE
  software that is required to run this applet

**Usage:**

* Specifying deployment options as attribute and parameter name-value pairs

  The attributes and parameters passed as name-value pairs are written out as
  attributes and nested `<param>` tags in the generated
  `<applet>` tag.
  Applets deployed in this manner can be run by the old Java Plug-in software.

  ```

  // launch the Java 2D applet on JRE version 1.6.0 or higher with one parameter (fontSize)
  <script src="http://www.java.com/js/deployJava.js"></script>
  <script>
      var attributes = {code:'java2d.Java2DemoApplet.class',
          archive:'http://java.sun.com/products/plugin/1.5.0/demos/plugin/jfc/Java2D/Java2Demo.jar',
          width:710, height:540} ;
      var parameters = {fontSize:16} ;
      var version = '1.6' ;
      deployJava.runApplet(attributes, parameters, version);
  </script>

  ```

  Open
  [`DeployUsingNameValuePairs.html`](examples/dist/depltoolkit_Java2Demo/DeployUsingNameValuePairs.html) in a browser to view the the Java2D applet.

  ---

  **Note:** If you don't see the applet running, make sure that you have at least the Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition (J2SE) 1.4.2 release on your client. If not, [download](http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp) and install the latest release of the Java SE Development Kit (JDK). 

  ---
* Using the `jnlp_href` parameter
  to specify deployment options in a JNLP file

  The attributes and parameters (`jnlp_href` in this case) passed as name-value
  pairs are written out as attributes and nested `<param>` tags in the
  generated `<applet>` tag. Applets deployed in this manner can be run by the
  next generation Java Plug-in software only.
  It is better to specify the applet's width and
  height as attributes as follows:

  ```

  <script src="http://www.java.com/js/deployJava.js"></script>
  <script> 
      var attributes = {code:'java2d.Java2DemoApplet', width:710, height:540} ; 
      var parameters = {jnlp_href: 'java2d.jnlp'} ; 
      deployJava.runApplet(attributes, parameters, '1.6'); 
  </script>

  ```

  Open
  [`DeployUsingJNLP.html`](examples/dist/depltoolkit_Java2Demo/DeployUsingJNLP.html) in a browser to view the the Java2D applet.

  ---

  **Note:** If you don't see the applet running, you need to install at least the [Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 6 update 10](http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp) release.

  ---
* Specifying attribute and parameter
  name-value pairs *as well as* a JNLP file

  Applets deployed by using JNLP will run only if end users have the next generation
  Java Plug-in software running on their browsers.
  If you would like your applet to run on the old Java Plug-in software also, specify deployment options
  using attribute and parameter name-value pairs *as well as* a JNLP file.

  ```
      
  <script src="http://www.java.com/js/deployJava.js"></script>
  <script>	
      var attributes = {code:'java2d.Java2DemoApplet.class', 
              archive:'http://java.sun.com/products/plugin/1.5.0/demos/plugin/jfc/Java2D/Java2Demo.jar', 
              width:710, height:540} ; 
      var parameters = {fontSize:16, jnlp_href:'java2d.jnlp'} ; 
      var version = '1.6' ; 
      deployJava.runApplet(attributes, parameters, version);  	
  </script>

  ```

  The following guidelines are helpful if some deployment options have different
  values in the attribute name-value pairs and in the JNLP file:
  + Specify `width` and `height` as attribute name-value
    pairs (not in the JNLP file).
  + Specify parameters such as `image` and
    `boxbgcolor` as parameter name-value pairs (not in the JNLP file).
    These parameters are needed early on in the applet startup process.
  + In the JNLP file, leave the `codebase` attribute empty or specify an
    absolute URL. When the `codebase` attribute is left empty, it defaults
    to the directory containing the JNLP file.
  + If the applet is launched using a JNLP file, the values for the
    `code`,
    `codebase`, and `archive` attributes are taken from
    the JNLP file. If these attributes are also specified separately as
    attribute name-value pairs, the attribute name-value pairs are ignored.

  Open
  [`DeployUsingNameValuePairsAndJNLP.html`](examples/dist/depltoolkit_Java2Demo/DeployUsingNameValuePairsAndJNLP.html) in a browser to view the the Java2D applet.

  ---

  **Note:** If you don't see the applet running, make sure that you have at least the Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition (J2SE) 1.4.2 release on your client. If not, [download](http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index.jsp) and install the latest release of the Java SE Development Kit (JDK). 

  ---

[Download source code](examplesIndex.html#runApplet) for the *Run Applet* example to experiment further.

[« Previous](depltoolkit_index.html)
•
[Trail](../TOC.html)
•
[Next »](customizeLoadingScreen.html)

---

Problems with the examples? Try [Compiling and Running
the Examples: FAQs](../../information/run-examples.html).
  
Complaints? Compliments? Suggestions? [Give
us your feedback](http://download.oracle.com/javase/feedback.html).

Your use of this page and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner,
and all the material on pages under "The Java Tutorials" banner is subject to the [Java SE Tutorial Copyright
and License](../../information/license.html).
Additionally, any example code contained in any of these Java
Tutorials pages is licensed under the
[Code
Sample License](http://developers.sun.com/license/berkeley_license.html).

|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| |  |  | | --- | --- | | duke image | Oracle logo | | [About Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/us/corporate/index.html) | [Oracle Technology Network](http://www.oracle.com/technology/index.html) | [Terms of Service](https://www.samplecode.oracle.com/servlets/CompulsoryClickThrough?type=TermsOfService) | Copyright © 1995, 2011 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. |

**Previous page:** Deployment Toolkit
  
**Next page:** Customizing the Loading Screen




A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly.